README.md, before:

# kickstart-modular.nvim

## Introduction

*This is a fork of [nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim) that moves from a single file to a multi file configuration.*

A starting point for Neovim that is:

* Small
* Modular
* Completely Documented

**NOT** a Neovim distribution, but instead a starting point for your configuration.

## Installation

### Install Neovim

Kickstart.nvim targets *only* the latest
['stable'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/stable) and latest
['nightly'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/nightly) of Neovim.
If you are experiencing issues, please make sure you have the latest versions.

### Install External Dependencies

External Requirements:
- Basic utils: `git`, `make`, `unzip`, C Compiler (`gcc`)
- [ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep#installation)
- Clipboard tool (xclip/xsel/win32yank or other depending on the platform)
- A [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/): optional, provides various icons
  - if you have it set `vim.g.have_nerd_font` in `init.lua` to true
- Language Setup:
  - If you want to write Typescript, you need `npm`
  - If you want to write Golang, you will need `go`
  - etc.

> **NOTE**
> See [Install Recipes](#Install-Recipes) for additional Windows and Linux specific notes
> and quick install snippets

### Install Kickstart

> **NOTE**
> [Backup](#FAQ) your previous configuration (if any exists)

Neovim's configurations are located under the following paths, depending on your OS:

| OS | PATH |
| :- | :--- |
| Linux, MacOS | `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nvim`, `~/.config/nvim` |
| Windows (cmd)| `%localappdata%\nvim\` |
| Windows (powershell)| `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\nvim\` |

#### Recommended Step

[Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repo
so that you have your own copy that you can modify, then install by cloning the
fork to your machine using one of the commands below, depending on your OS.

> **NOTE**
> Your fork's URL will be something like this:
> `https://github.com/<your_github_username>/kickstart-modular.nvim.git`

You likely want to remove `lazy-lock.json` from your fork's `.gitignore` file
too - it's ignored in the kickstart repo to make maintenance easier, but it's
[recommended to track it in version control](https://lazy.folke.io/usage/lockfile).

#### Clone kickstart.nvim
> **NOTE**
> If following the recommended step above (i.e., forking the repo), replace
> `dam9000` with `<your_github_username>` in the commands below

<details><summary> Linux and Mac </summary>

```sh
git clone https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart-modular.nvim.git "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-$HOME/.config}"/nvim
```

</details>

<details><summary> Windows </summary>

If you're using `cmd.exe`:

```
git clone https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart.nvim.git "%localappdata%\nvim"
```

If you're using `powershell.exe`

```
git clone https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart.nvim.git "${env:LOCALAPPDATA}\nvim"
```

</details>

### Post Installation

Start Neovim

```sh
nvim
```

That's it! Lazy will install all the plugins you have. Use `:Lazy` to view
the current plugin status. Hit `q` to close the window.

#### Read The Friendly Documentation

Read through the `init.lua` file in your configuration folder for more
information about extending and exploring Neovim. That also includes
examples of adding popularly requested plugins.

> [!NOTE]
> For more information about a particular plugin check its repository's documentation.


### Getting Started

[The Only Video You Need to Get Started with Neovim](https://youtu.be/m8C0Cq9Uv9o)

### FAQ

* What should I do if I already have a pre-existing Neovim configuration?
  * You should back it up and then delete all associated files.
  * This includes your existing init.lua and the Neovim files in `~/.local`
    which can be deleted with `rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim/`
* Can I keep my existing configuration in parallel to kickstart?
  * Yes! You can use [NVIM_APPNAME](https://neovim.io/doc/user/starting.html#%24NVIM_APPNAME)`=nvim-NAME`
    to maintain multiple configurations. For example, you can install the kickstart
    configuration in `~/.config/nvim-kickstart` and create an alias:
    ```
    alias nvim-kickstart='NVIM_APPNAME="nvim-kickstart" nvim'
    ```
    When you run Neovim using `nvim-kickstart` alias it will use the alternative
    config directory and the matching local directory
    `~/.local/share/nvim-kickstart`. You can apply this approach to any Neovim
    distribution that you would like to try out.
* What if I want to "uninstall" this configuration:
  * See [lazy.nvim uninstall](https://lazy.folke.io/usage#-uninstalling) information
* Why is the kickstart `init.lua` a single file? Wouldn't it make sense to split it into multiple files?
  * The main purpose of kickstart is to serve as a teaching tool and a reference
    configuration that someone can easily use to `git clone` as a basis for their own.
    As you progress in learning Neovim and Lua, you might consider splitting `init.lua`
    into smaller parts. A fork of kickstart that does this while maintaining the
    same functionality is available here:
    * [kickstart-modular.nvim](https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart-modular.nvim)
  * *NOTE: This is the fork that splits the configuration into smaller parts.*
    The original repo with the single `init.lua` file is available here:
    * [kickstart.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim)
  * Discussions on this topic can be found here:
    * [Restructure the configuration](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/issues/218)
    * [Reorganize init.lua into a multi-file setup](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/pull/473)

### Install Recipes

Below you can find OS specific install instructions for Neovim and dependencies.

After installing all the dependencies continue with the [Install Kickstart](#Install-Kickstart) step.

#### Windows Installation

<details><summary>Windows with Microsoft C++ Build Tools and CMake</summary>
Installation may require installing build tools and updating the run command for `telescope-fzf-native`

See `telescope-fzf-native` documentation for [more details](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim#installation)

This requires:

- Install CMake and the Microsoft C++ Build Tools on Windows

```lua
{'nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim', build = 'cmake -S. -Bbuild -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release && cmake --build build --config Release && cmake --install build --prefix build' }
```
</details>
<details><summary>Windows with gcc/make using chocolatey</summary>
Alternatively, one can install gcc and make which don't require changing the config,
the easiest way is to use choco:

1. install [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install)
either follow the instructions on the page or use winget,
run in cmd as **admin**:
```
winget install --accept-source-agreements chocolatey.chocolatey
```

2. install all requirements using choco, exit the previous cmd and
open a new one so that choco path is set, and run in cmd as **admin**:
```
choco install -y neovim git ripgrep wget fd unzip gzip mingw make
```
</details>
<details><summary>WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)</summary>

```
wsl --install
wsl
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git xclip neovim
```
</details>

#### Linux Install
<details><summary>Ubuntu Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git xclip neovim
```
</details>
<details><summary>Debian Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git xclip curl

# Now we install nvim
curl -LO https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/latest/download/nvim-linux64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /opt/nvim-linux64
sudo mkdir -p /opt/nvim-linux64
sudo chmod a+rX /opt/nvim-linux64
sudo tar -C /opt -xzf nvim-linux64.tar.gz

# make it available in /usr/local/bin, distro installs to /usr/bin
sudo ln -sf /opt/nvim-linux64/bin/nvim /usr/local/bin/
```

</details>
<details><summary>Fedora Install Steps</summary>

```bash
sudo dnf install -y gcc make git ripgrep fd-find unzip neovim
```
</details>

<details><summary>Arch Install Steps</summary>

```bash
sudo pacman -S --noconfirm --needed gcc make git ripgrep fd unzip neovim
```

</details>

## PVS Modifications

### General Configuration Modifications

First of all, I've commited my `lazy-lock.json` file (removed from `.gitignore`)\

I've tried to do as few modifications as possible to the already existing files, so it would be easy to rebase with the original fork.\
The modifications that I've done, though, are marked with a previous comment started by: `-- [PVS]:`.\
A part from modifying some parameters, it's possible that at the end of the file I've added my own section (my section will always be the last one, there's not going to be any upstream code after it).\

Files where I've modified paramters or added my section:

* `init.lua`
* `lua/keymaps.lua`
* `lua/lazy-plugins.lua`
* `lua/options.lua`

Also, in the `init.lua`, I added another import for the Autocommands. In the kickstart config, the autocommands are put together in the same files as keymaps, and I moved them out to a new `lua/autocommands.lua` file and imported this.

### Custom Installed Plugins

I installed custom plugins on the `lua/custom/plugins` folder. Everything at this folder is added automatically in the `lua/lazy-plugins.lua`.\
I've documented the reason for each plugin installation as well as possible config in the plugin file itself.

### Added ftplugin

I've added the `ftplugin` folder on the root to manage filetype specific settings & configuration.\
This is only when required, sometimes the formatter already knows how to deal with it and I don't need to add it there.\
This allows me to remove the `vim: ts=2 sts=2 sw=2 et` comment that we had at the end of each file.

### LSP Config

I've also modified the config in `lua/kickstart/plugins/lspconfig.lua` to add the servers, linters and formatters I care about.\
As always, if I've modified/added some lines, I've marked it with a `-- [PVS]:` comment, as well as when I add entire sections (like new servers in the `servers` variable for the lsp-cofnig).

Commit message:

Finalize my custom configuration of the fork from kickstart modular

README.md, after:

# kickstart-modular.nvim

## Introduction

*This is a fork of [nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim) that moves from a single file to a multi file configuration.*

A starting point for Neovim that is:

* Small
* Modular
* Completely Documented

**NOT** a Neovim distribution, but instead a starting point for your configuration.

## Installation

### Install Neovim

Kickstart.nvim targets *only* the latest
['stable'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/stable) and latest
['nightly'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/nightly) of Neovim.
If you are experiencing issues, please make sure you have the latest versions.

### Install External Dependencies

External Requirements:
- Basic utils: `git`, `make`, `unzip`, C Compiler (`gcc`)
- [ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep#installation)
- Clipboard tool (xclip/xsel/win32yank or other depending on the platform)
- A [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/): optional, provides various icons
  - if you have it set `vim.g.have_nerd_font` in `init.lua` to true
- Language Setup:
  - If you want to write Typescript, you need `npm`
  - If you want to write Golang, you will need `go`
  - etc.

> **NOTE**
> See [Install Recipes](#Install-Recipes) for additional Windows and Linux specific notes
> and quick install snippets

### Install Kickstart

> **NOTE**
> [Backup](#FAQ) your previous configuration (if any exists)

Neovim's configurations are located under the following paths, depending on your OS:

| OS | PATH |
| :- | :--- |
| Linux, MacOS | `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nvim`, `~/.config/nvim` |
| Windows (cmd)| `%localappdata%\nvim\` |
| Windows (powershell)| `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\nvim\` |

#### Recommended Step

[Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repo
so that you have your own copy that you can modify, then install by cloning the
fork to your machine using one of the commands below, depending on your OS.

> **NOTE**
> Your fork's URL will be something like this:
> `https://github.com/<your_github_username>/kickstart-modular.nvim.git`

You likely want to remove `lazy-lock.json` from your fork's `.gitignore` file
too - it's ignored in the kickstart repo to make maintenance easier, but it's
[recommended to track it in version control](https://lazy.folke.io/usage/lockfile).

#### Clone kickstart.nvim
> **NOTE**
> If following the recommended step above (i.e., forking the repo), replace
> `dam9000` with `<your_github_username>` in the commands below

<details><summary> Linux and Mac </summary>

```sh
git clone https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart-modular.nvim.git "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-$HOME/.config}"/nvim
```

</details>

<details><summary> Windows </summary>

If you're using `cmd.exe`:

```
git clone https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart.nvim.git "%localappdata%\nvim"
```

If you're using `powershell.exe`

```
git clone https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart.nvim.git "${env:LOCALAPPDATA}\nvim"
```

</details>

### Post Installation

Start Neovim

```sh
nvim
```

That's it! Lazy will install all the plugins you have. Use `:Lazy` to view
the current plugin status. Hit `q` to close the window.

#### Read The Friendly Documentation

Read through the `init.lua` file in your configuration folder for more
information about extending and exploring Neovim. That also includes
examples of adding popularly requested plugins.

> [!NOTE]
> For more information about a particular plugin check its repository's documentation.


### Getting Started

[The Only Video You Need to Get Started with Neovim](https://youtu.be/m8C0Cq9Uv9o)

### FAQ

* What should I do if I already have a pre-existing Neovim configuration?
  * You should back it up and then delete all associated files.
  * This includes your existing init.lua and the Neovim files in `~/.local`
    which can be deleted with `rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim/`
* Can I keep my existing configuration in parallel to kickstart?
  * Yes! You can use [NVIM_APPNAME](https://neovim.io/doc/user/starting.html#%24NVIM_APPNAME)`=nvim-NAME`
    to maintain multiple configurations. For example, you can install the kickstart
    configuration in `~/.config/nvim-kickstart` and create an alias:
    ```
    alias nvim-kickstart='NVIM_APPNAME="nvim-kickstart" nvim'
    ```
    When you run Neovim using `nvim-kickstart` alias it will use the alternative
    config directory and the matching local directory
    `~/.local/share/nvim-kickstart`. You can apply this approach to any Neovim
    distribution that you would like to try out.
* What if I want to "uninstall" this configuration:
  * See [lazy.nvim uninstall](https://lazy.folke.io/usage#-uninstalling) information
* Why is the kickstart `init.lua` a single file? Wouldn't it make sense to split it into multiple files?
  * The main purpose of kickstart is to serve as a teaching tool and a reference
    configuration that someone can easily use to `git clone` as a basis for their own.
    As you progress in learning Neovim and Lua, you might consider splitting `init.lua`
    into smaller parts. A fork of kickstart that does this while maintaining the
    same functionality is available here:
    * [kickstart-modular.nvim](https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart-modular.nvim)
  * *NOTE: This is the fork that splits the configuration into smaller parts.*
    The original repo with the single `init.lua` file is available here:
    * [kickstart.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim)
  * Discussions on this topic can be found here:
    * [Restructure the configuration](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/issues/218)
    * [Reorganize init.lua into a multi-file setup](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/pull/473)

### Install Recipes

Below you can find OS specific install instructions for Neovim and dependencies.

After installing all the dependencies continue with the [Install Kickstart](#Install-Kickstart) step.

#### Windows Installation

<details><summary>Windows with Microsoft C++ Build Tools and CMake</summary>
Installation may require installing build tools and updating the run command for `telescope-fzf-native`

See `telescope-fzf-native` documentation for [more details](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim#installation)

This requires:

- Install CMake and the Microsoft C++ Build Tools on Windows

```lua
{'nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim', build = 'cmake -S. -Bbuild -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release && cmake --build build --config Release && cmake --install build --prefix build' }
```
</details>
<details><summary>Windows with gcc/make using chocolatey</summary>
Alternatively, one can install gcc and make which don't require changing the config,
the easiest way is to use choco:

1. install [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install)
either follow the instructions on the page or use winget,
run in cmd as **admin**:
```
winget install --accept-source-agreements chocolatey.chocolatey
```

2. install all requirements using choco, exit the previous cmd and
open a new one so that choco path is set, and run in cmd as **admin**:
```
choco install -y neovim git ripgrep wget fd unzip gzip mingw make
```
</details>
<details><summary>WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)</summary>

```
wsl --install
wsl
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git xclip neovim
```
</details>

#### Linux Install
<details><summary>Ubuntu Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git xclip neovim
```
</details>
<details><summary>Debian Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git xclip curl

# Now we install nvim
curl -LO https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/latest/download/nvim-linux64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /opt/nvim-linux64
sudo mkdir -p /opt/nvim-linux64
sudo chmod a+rX /opt/nvim-linux64
sudo tar -C /opt -xzf nvim-linux64.tar.gz

# make it available in /usr/local/bin, distro installs to /usr/bin
sudo ln -sf /opt/nvim-linux64/bin/nvim /usr/local/bin/
```

</details>
<details><summary>Fedora Install Steps</summary>

```bash
sudo dnf install -y gcc make git ripgrep fd-find unzip neovim
```
</details>

<details><summary>Arch Install Steps</summary>

```bash
sudo pacman -S --noconfirm --needed gcc make git ripgrep fd unzip neovim
```

</details>

## PVS Modifications

### How to use it

Basically, you just have to `git clone` this repo (or the fork you might have created) and put it in your `~/.config` directory, and will end up like: `~/.config/nvim`.\
After this, you just have to type `nvim` and all the plugins, servers, dependencies, etc. should install just fine (if you have the prerequisits that appear in the original readme, which you probably do).\
That's it! You should have a working installation now! :)

### General Configuration Modifications

First of all, I've commited my `lazy-lock.json` file (removed from `.gitignore`)\

I've tried to do as few modifications as possible to the already existing files, so it would be easy to rebase with the original fork.\
The modifications that I've done, though, are marked with a previous comment started by: `-- [PVS]:`.\
A part from modifying some parameters, it's possible that at the end of the file I've added my own section (my section will always be the last one, there's not going to be any upstream code after it).\

Files where I've modified paramters or added my section:

* `init.lua`
* `lua/keymaps.lua`
* `lua/lazy-plugins.lua`
* `lua/options.lua`

Also, in the `init.lua`, I added another import for the Autocommands. In the kickstart config, the autocommands are put together in the same files as keymaps, and I moved them out to a new `lua/autocommands.lua` file and imported this.

### Custom Installed Plugins

I installed custom plugins on the `lua/custom/plugins` folder. Everything at this folder is added automatically in the `lua/lazy-plugins.lua`.\
I've documented the reason for each plugin installation as well as possible config in the plugin file itself.

### Added ftplugin

I've added the `ftplugin` folder on the root to manage filetype specific settings & configuration.\
This is only when required, sometimes the formatter already knows how to deal with it and I don't need to add it there.\
This allows me to remove the `vim: ts=2 sts=2 sw=2 et` comment that we had at the end of each file.

### Original Plugin configuration changes

I've done some changes on the configuration of some of the plugins that come by default in `lua/kickstart/plugins/*.lua`.\
All the changes done there are indicated with a `-- [PVS]: ` comment, wether it is an inline change or a full new section, both are indicated.
